Update the name of the SMS Receiver API WebOTP API and revise supporting material (#2303)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/webotp/index.md

---

> title: Verify phone numbers on the web with the WebOTP API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Verify phone numbers on the web with the Web OTP API
```

subhead: Help users type OTPs received through SMS
authors:
  - agektmr
date: 2019-10-07
update: 2020-03-05
hero: hero.png
alt: A drawing of a woman using OTP to log in to a web app.

description: |
  Finding, memorizing, and typing OTPs sent via SMS is cumbersome. The

>   WebOTP API simplifies the OTP workflow for users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Web OTP API simplifies the OTP workflow for users.
```

  - fugu
---

> ## What is the WebOTP API?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is the Web OTP API?
```

Sending this code back to the developer's server demonstrates control of the
phone number.

{% Aside %}

> The WebOTP API was originally called the SMS Receiver API. You may still see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Web OTP API was originally called the SMS Receiver API. You may still see
```

and
[Safari](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/password_autofill/enabling_password_autofill_on_an_html_input_element).

> The WebOTP API lets your app receive specially-formatted messages bound to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Web OTP API lets your app receive specially-formatted messages bound to
```

your app's origin. From this, you can programmatically obtain an OTP from an SMS
message and verify a phone number for the user more easily.

{% Aside 'warning' %}
Attackers can spoof SMS and hijack a person's phone number. Carriers can also
recycle phone numbers to new users after an account is closed. While SMS OTP is
useful to verify a phone number for the use cases above, we recommend using
additional and stronger forms of authentication (such as multiple factors and
the [Web Authentication
API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API) to
establish new sessions for these users.
{% endAside %}

## Current status

> The table below explains the current status of the WebOTP API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table below explains the current status of the Web OTP API.
```

sends a text message to the user over SMS and the user enters the OTP from the
message to verify the ownership of the phone number.

> With the WebOTP API, these steps are as easy as one tap for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the Web OTP API, these steps are as easy as one tap for the
```

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
  <img src="./diagram.png" width="486" height="499" />
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">

>     WebOTP API diagram

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Web OTP API diagram
```

  </figcaption>
</figure

Try [the demo](https://sms-receiver-demo.glitch.me) yourself. It doesn't ask for
your phone number or send an SMS to your device, but you can send one from
another device by copying the text displayed in the demo. This works because it

> doesn't matter who the sender is when using the WebOTP API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
doesn't matter who the sender is when using the Web OTP API.
```

1. Go to
   [https://sms-receiver-demo.glitch.me](https://sms-receiver-demo.glitch.me) in Chrome 81 or later.
1. Select **Chrome Stable** from the provided list.
1. Press **Copy** to copy the text message.
1. Using your SMS app send it to another phone.
1. Press **Verify**.
1. From the other phone, send yourself the copied text message via SMS.

Did you receive the SMS and see the prompt to enter the code to the input area?

> That is how the WebOTP API works for users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is how the Web OTP API works for users.
```

{% Aside 'caution' %}
If you are using a work profile on your Android device and the SMS Receiver does
not seem to be working, try installing and using Chrome on your personal profile
instead (i.e. the same profile in which you receive SMS messages).
{% endAside %}

> ## Using the WebOTP API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the Web OTP API
```

> Using the WebOTP API consists of two parts: JavaScript in your web

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the Web OTP API consists of two parts: JavaScript in your web
```

app and formatted message text sent via SMS.

{% Aside %}

> The WebOTP API requires a secure origin (HTTPS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Web OTP API requires a secure origin (HTTPS).
```
